In this video we'll take a look at the proactive ha feature that is now available in these first five.
And so here you can see I'm under the hosts and cluster's view and I'm looking at my H.A. cluster and
I'm going to go ahead and click on edit and we'll take a look at the cluster settings here.
And one of the settings that we have the ability to configure is to turn on proactive ha.
But you can see here there is a prerequisite to that.
We have to have dress enabled first.
So I'm going to start by simply just enabling dress in manual mode.
OK so now I've configured my cluster to enable D or s in manual mode and I'm going to go ahead and go
to the other screen here and now turn on proactive high availability as well.
And so here's what proactive ha is going to do for me.
High Availability is normally.
Service impacting.
Right you can see here we have all of these conditions that we can configure like for example if a host
fails.
We want our virtual machines to restart.
Right so all of these responses that we see here other than proactive ha involve restarting of Virtual
Machine This changes in these first six top five or higher visibility now has the capability of detecting
hardware problems inside of your ESX I host.
And this can allow you to get the virtual machines off of a host before it creates an outage proactive.
Ha.
Works with hardware vendors to monitor the health status of things like your power supply or the fans
in an ESX host and if one of those components fails we can leverage Diyar Ross to migrate the virtual
machines off of that host.
So you'll see in the configuration that I've established here right now the automation level is manual
right which means you're going to have to approve any changes.
But I'm going to go ahead and change it to automate it that way.
If there is some kind of health problem with one of my ESX I host the virtual machines will move automatically.
So now that I've enabled proactive ha and I've configured it to be automated now I can configure the
remediation and we have a few different options here.
So the first option is quarantine mode for all failures and this basically means that if proactive ha
detects some sort of failure on an ESX host it will not power up any new Reems on that host and it will
also attempt to move virtual machines off of that host as long as it doesn't create any performance
issues.
So this is a really conservative way to do this.
Right if a host reports one of these problems we're going to try and get virtual machines off it.
We're not going to power up any new VMS on that host.
But if migrating VMS off of that host will create a performance issue that won't happen.
So VMS may continue to run that host that has an issue or we could say you know what let's do this quarantine
mode for moderate problems in maintenance mode for severe problems.
So if if a problem that is qualified as a moderate occurs the host is going to be quarantined right.
Meaning no VMS will boot up on it and it will migrate as many CMS off of that host as possible.
As long as it doesn't create a performance issue but if there is a severe failure that host is going
to enter may in its mode and that means that every Virgine machine will be evacuated from it and no
VMS can boot up on it.
And the third option is we can just be really aggressive and say you know what if there's any failure.
Go ahead and place the host in maintenance mode.
And that means no CMS can run that host or any virtual machines running out it will be automatically
migrated off.
So that's proactive ha and kind of the thought process here is looking to avoid outages rather than
just responding to those outages we're trying to set up our cluster to actually avoid a failure of our
virtual machines.
So I just said Okay.
And then proactive ha will be enabled on my cluster.